Simple module to convert data table (CSV/SAS7BDAT/JSON) into NDI format released under the MIT license.

## About ##
The formatting and validation convert supported data files into acceptable NDI datasets for submission. The validation is not intended to support an arbitrary NDI file, but one which has been generated by the included formatter.

### Disclaimer ### 
No guarantee of any kind is made that this code produces the desired output. Please inspect your own data to ensure that it is correct, and contribute to improve the current formatter/validator.

### References ### 

* National Center for Health Statistics. National Death Index user’s guide. Hyattsville, MD. 2013.
* Above cited is available at http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/ndi/NDI_Users_Guide.pdf

## Requirements ##
* Python 3.3+
* Optional packages:
    * dateutil: enables inference of date (for birthdate)
    * sas7bdat: enables parsing of sas7bdat files
    
## Prerequisites ##
1. A supported data file with information that needs to be converted to NDI format.
2. Install Python 3.3+ 
    * installing Anaconda 3 Python distribution is recommended
    * Anaconda will include the dateutil library by default
3. (Optional) Install optional packages:
    * Install sas7bdat by running `pip install sas7bdat`
    * Install dateutil by running `pip install dateutil`
    * For issues with proxy, try the answers to this SO question: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14149422/

## Doco ##

### Installation ###
Either with pip:

    pip install ndi_formatter
     
Or download the repository:
    
    git clone git@bitbucket.org:dcronkite/ndi_formatter.git
    cd ndi_formatter
    python setup.py install

### Basics ###
The best way to get started is to figure out which options you need to pass.

    # create a sample configuration file
    ndi-formatter --create-sample >> sample.config
    
    # see all arguments
    ndi-formatter --help
    
    # run with a config file
    ndi-formatter "@configfile.conf"
    
    